# 02.SoftUni-TechModule
# Software Technologies
The "Software Technologies" course provides initial knowledge of the most used software technologies in practice and allows students to orientate which technologies they like to study them more thoroughly. Basic concepts from front-end and back-end development are studied. The course consists of four parts: HTML5 development (HTML + CSS + JavaScript + AJAX + REST), PHP web development (PHP + MySQL), C # Web development (ASP.NET MVC + Entity Framework + SQL Server) Java + Spring MVC + Hibernate + MySQL).

The training methodology is extremely practical. The studied material is presented with a little theory, with numerous examples and a great number of practical tasks with increasing difficulty and upgrading one after the other, with detailed instructions. Practical work in a class under the supervision of lecturers and assistants (or home for online students) is over 70%. The course only introduces the technologies studied and gives very basic skills without going into depth. The goal is not to learn the covered technologies, but to get acquainted with them.

In the first few topics, students are introduced to the HTML5 platform. Through many hands-on exercises, the basics of the HTML web content description language in combination with the CSS web content styling language and the JavaScript language that builds dynamic client web applications running in the web browser (front-end development) are explored. Basics of the JavaScript language are studied - its syntax, range of variables, conditional constructs, cycles, arrays, objects, functions and their use, access to the DOM page elements. It continues with the practical use of AJAX technology for retrieving data from REST services and access to BaaS Cloud Data Storage (Kinvey). To link everything that has been studied up to now, as a practical project, students build a simple blog system based on HTML5, AJAX, and REST.

In the next few topics, students are introduced to PHP and MySQL. After installing and configuring a workspace for PHP (XAMPP or LAMP), they get to know the language, its syntax, conditional constructions, cycles, arrays, functions. Continuing with very brief introduction to HTTP protocol and processing of GET and POST queries with PHP. Here is a very brief introduction to relational databases and MySQL through examples and practical exercises. Learning to define tables and links between them, writing very simple SQL queries and accessing MySQL from PHP - extracting, adding, changing and deleting rows. To link everything learned in the last few topics, as a practical project, students build a simple blog system based on PHP and MySQL.

After passing through these topics, students get acquainted with C # Web development. It starts with a practical understanding of MS SQL Server and the Entity Framework technology for data access from C # applications. Below are the basics of ASP.NET MVC server application development technology - views, controls, models, forms, data access, user registration, and login. Following is the development of a practical project - a simple blog system based on ASP.NET MVC, Entity Framework and SQL Server.

In the last few topics, students are introduced to Java Web development. It starts with a short introduction to the Java language - syntax, variables, conditional constructs, cycles, arrays, lists, classes and objects. Next is the introduction to Hibernate ORM and access to MySQL database from Java. Continued with Java Web Applications (Servlets / JSP) and Java MVC Web Development Technology. Following is the development of a practical project - a simple blog system based on Java, Spring MVC, Hibernate and MySQL.


# Programming Fundamentals
The “Programming Fundamentals” course extends the previously gained basic coding skills from the “Programming Basics” course at the Software University and adds additional knowledge and practical programming skills.

The course covers understanding the basic data types in programming, extracting pieces of code into methods with parameters and return value, using the debugger to trace the program execution and find bugs, processing sequences of elements using arrays and lists, using collections, working with matrices for processing tabular data, working with dictionaries to map keys to values, using strings for text processing, and the basics of working with classes and objects, using API classes and defining simple classes.

Along with the programming techniques, the algorithmic thinking and problem solving skills are advanced by solving hundreds of practical programming problems. All exercises and exams are automatically evaluated with real-time feedback through the SoftUni online judge system. At the end all students take a practical programming exam.
